ARROW-17887: [R][Doc] Improve readability of the Get Started and README pages (#14514)
apache/arrow: r/vignettes/data_wrangling.Rmd

---
title: "Data analysis with dplyr syntax"
description: >
  Learn how to use the `dplyr` backend supplied by `arrow` 
output: rmarkdown::html_vignette
---

> The `arrow` package provides a `dplyr` back end that allows users to manipulate tabular Arrow data (`Table` and `Dataset` objects) using familiar `dplyr` syntax. To use this functionality, make sure that the `arrow` and `dplyr` packages are both loaded. In this article we will take the `starwars` data set included in `dplyr`, convert it to an Arrow Table, and then analyze this data. Note that, although these examples all use an in-memory `Table` object, the same functionality works for an on-disk `Dataset` object with only minor differences in behavior (documented later in the article).

Reviewer: Could we use a different term to "back end" here? I've heard different people use the terms "back end", "frontend", "API" and other terms, and I think this can sound a bit ambiguous.

Author: Hm yeah. Okay, what I've done is refer only to "functionality". It's still ambiguous, but nobody expects that term to be precise. I figure that's better than trying to describe what the arrow/dplyr bindings actually are in the opening sentence!

To get started let's load the packages and create the data:

```{r}
library(dplyr, warn.conflicts = FALSE)
library(arrow, warn.conflicts = FALSE)

sw <- arrow_table(starwars, as_data_frame = FALSE)
```

## One-table dplyr verbs

The `arrow` package provides support for the `dplyr` one-table verbs, allowing users to construct data analysis pipelines in a familiar way. The example below shows the use of `filter()`, `rename()`, `mutate()`, `arrange()` and `select()`:

```{r}
result <- sw %>%
  filter(homeworld == "Tatooine") %>%
  rename(height_cm = height, mass_kg = mass) %>%
  mutate(height_in = height_cm / 2.54, mass_lbs = mass_kg * 2.2046) %>%
  arrange(desc(birth_year)) %>%
  select(name, height_in, mass_lbs)
```

> It is important to note that `arrow` users lazy evaluation to delay computation until the result is explicitly requested. This speeds up processing by enabling the Arrow C++ library to perform multiple computations in one operation. As a consequence of this design choice, we have not yet performed computations on the `sw` data have been performed. The `result` variable is an object with class `arrow_dplyr_query` that represents all the computations to be performed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to note that `arrow` uses lazy evaluation to delay computation until the result is explicitly requested. This speeds up processing by enabling the Arrow C++ library to perform multiple computations in one operation. As a consequence of this design choice, we have not yet performed computations on the `sw` data. The `result` variable is an object with class `arrow_dplyr_query` that represents all the computations to be performed:
```

```{r}
to_snake_name <- function(context, string) {
  replace <- c(`'` = "", `"` = "", `-` = "", `\\.` = "_", ` ` = "_")
  string %>% 
    stringr::str_replace_all(replace) %>%
    stringr::str_to_lower() %>% 
    stringi::stri_trans_general(id = "Latin-ASCII")
}
```

To call this within an `arrow`/`dplyr` pipeline, it needs to be registered:

```{r}
register_scalar_function(
  name = "to_snake_name",
  fun = to_snake_name,
  in_type = utf8(),
  out_type = utf8(),
  auto_convert = TRUE
)
```

In this expression, the `name` argument specifies the name by which it will be recognized in the context of the `arrow`/`dplyr` pipeline and `fun` is the function itself. The `in_type` and `out_type` arguments are used to specify the expected data type for the input and output, and `auto_convert` specifies whether `arrow` should automatically convert any R inputs to their Arrow equivalents. 

Once registered, the following works:

```{r}
sw %>% 

>   transmute(name, snake_name = to_snake_name(name)) %>%

Reviewer 2: How about use `mutate(.keep = "none")` instead of `transmute()`?
tidyverse/dplyr#6414
